---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Browser Extensions
---

# Week Three

Over the last week, I've had the priviledge of working with a great team (Ben and Willow) on a new browser extension. It was very rewarding doing the practice activities together - while they were simple, it was my first time developing an actual browser extension, and I was glad to see that we were all using Firefox. 
We haven't made too much progress yet, mainly just outlining our goals and setting up the repository. I've had an active role in that - I set up the repo myself, while Willow managed the initial commits, populating the gitignore and README.md and Ben and I worked on deciding on an idea.

Our idea is fairly approachable. We plan to make a Gradescope score calculator, to make determining our final grades easier. It seems to be very approachable, but I do wish we'd taken on something a bit moore challenging. One idea I had was a suite of tools to make Gmail on Web better-designed.
I have some qualms about the UI and I'd have loved to fix those. In any case, we have some fun design decisions and Easter eggs ahead, so I'm very excited to keep working. 

### Open Source Contributions

This week, my main open-source contributions have been cleaning up misinformation on Wikipedia. I made a number of changes on the pages of musicians I follow (though for a good 50% of them I forgot to log in...)
I also made a number of changes for photographers as well. I recently received a new Daido Moriyama print, and I noticed a few mistakes on his Wikipedia page, so I had to fix those. 
